Okay, we are going to talk about
primarily JPA Entity relationships and
we're going to get into a lot of the
mapping aspects of utilizing JPA. Now we
do have several types of relationships
that we can work with.
First is one-to-one and the annotation
to define that is @OnetoOne and
this is where you know exactly one
entity is related to another entity. So
it's going to be like an embedded type
and a type. So then it'll just be one. And
then the next we have one to many and
this is where you have one entity that
has many different entities that it is
related to. And typically this is going
to be a List, Set, Map, SortedSet or
SortedMap and you mostly see in use
lists and sets. So that's the
primary use cases that you can see.
However there are cases when you do want
to use the other types. Now the final
example, our final example is we also have
many two one and this is a inverse
relationship of one-to-many. So you can
do a two direction mapping here. And
then next is many to many and
this is one that gets people confused
sometimes. You have many entities that are
related in many other entities and each
has a List or Set or any of the other
types that just mentioned on the left side.
References to each other and you're
going to see a join table where you
identify the ID properties of each of
the related entities and good example of
this would be if you had products
and categories. So you could have many
products belonging to many different
categories and have that relationship
going back and forth. So you could have a
category that would be covering multiple
products. So that's a pretty common use
case for many to many relationships. Now
we just mentioned it there briefly, we
have unidirectional and bi-directional.
Unidirectional is a one-way mapping. So
mapping is only done on one side of the
relationship. The other side of the relationship does
not know about the other entity and then
bi-directional is where you complete the
mapping for both ways. So both sides of
the relationship know about each
other. And the folks at Hibernate they
recommend to use bi-directional because
then you can navigate the object graph
in either direction. So this is all about
now getting those objects. In a
unidirectional, if you try to go
backwards in a one-to-one or one way
unidirectional, you're not going to be
able to because that property will be
missing on the object. So performance
wise, there's really no difference. So
it's just more for use case wise to use
the bi-directional. And next concept we
need to cover in mapping entities is the
owning side of the relationship. So one
entity will have an ownership to the
other entity. On one to one, this is where
the foreign key is specified. One to many
and many to one is typically the many
side. And typically, when we're doing the
mappings there's an attribute called mappedBy and that is the attribute that we're
going to see and use to define the
ownership reference of the relationship.
Next we want to talk about fetch type. So
that there's two such types that are
we're going to be dealing with inside of
JPA. Lazy fetch type and this means
data is not going to be queried until it's
referenced. So you could have a
relationship and what Hibernate is going
to do under the covers is when you go to
ask for that the list, it's going to run the
query then. So it only do the work when
it needs to. And then an eager fetch type,
the data is all queried upfront. So
Hibernate 5 does support the JPA 2.1
fetch type defaults and I think this
might have changed from four to five
before Hibernate. I'm thinking version four
Hibernate was all lazy but now they are
compliant with the JPA 2.1
standard and that is going to be one to
many is lazy, many to one is eager, many
to many is lazy and one to one is eager. So
this is all from the JPA standard and
affects how that object is built
when you initially call it out of the
database and goes through the ORM
mapping. Now we need to also
talk about cascade types. It's basically
how state changes are going to be
cascaded from parent objects to child
objects. So when you make changes to an object,
if you delete a parent object,
the child objects get deleted from the
database. So a lot of important stuff
happens here and then we do have several
categories to talk about. So the persist
cascade type, any save operation. So if
you have child entities involved, the
child entities will also get saved in a
save operation of the parent. Merge if
you're merging entities and there's child
entities, they are also going to get
merged and then just like refresh. This
is going to be a refresh operation. So
within JPA you can ask the database to
basically refresh the entity, go out and
fetch new data and exactly that's what's
going to be happening there with the
refresh operation. Then remove if you
remove a parent entity, now the child
entities will also get removed. Then
there's also the detach though. You can
get an entity and if you go into the
detach state, that means you're no longer
associated with a Hibernate session. And
this is one that definitely trips up
people because if you are in a detached
state, you will get an error if you try
to access a lazy association. But the
detach cascade type is going to
basically say when I detach a parent,
all the children will also be detached.
And then we do have the option of all
and all the previously mentioned cascade
types will be applied and it's important
to point out that by default, no cascade
operations are applied. So if you do not
specify the cascade type, then you're
going to have to manually manage
everything here. So if you were to delete
a parent, you'd have to first go and
delete the children and save that and
then you manage it then delete the parent. So the cascade types can definitely save
you a lot of work
but when misused that can cause you some
expected problems too. Then I also want
to talk about embeddable types. So JPA in
Hibernate do support an embeddable types
and this is basically a POJO that you
can use for a common set of properties
and reuse that in your entities. And a
really good example is if you have like
an order entity. You may have a billing
address and a shipping address, then this
is a perfect use case for having an
address type. So you don't have to repeat
all those properties. So it's just basic
hello composition, so being able to reuse
that. And then I do want to point out
that Hibernate does support inheritance. So we do have several strategies about
how the objects are mapped to the
database. Obviously a relational database
does not have the concept of inheritance
but the first inheritance that we need
to talk about is map superclass. And this is
something you're going to see me use
coming up and this is where the entities
inherit from a superclass but a database
table is not created for that superclass. You're going to have a set of properties
on that superclass and then those
entities will get their own table or
joint table. And this is going to apply
to entities and when we do subtypes. So
important distinction here. So if you
have just a type and inherits from the
default of object, it's going to get its
own table. But if you have like a shape
and define a square and this is where
these strategies are going to come into
play. So the default of Hibernate is to
use a single table. So as you expand out
your subclasses, all those subclasses
will share a single table and you're
expected to provide columns for the
different properties that are going to
be in play. Next is a joined table. So as
you extend out your classes the base
class is going to have its own table and
the subclasses are going to have their
own table. But the subclass tables will
only have the different columns. So
whatever additional properties that
subclass has will be in its own
table. But all the base properties will
be in the base class table
you'll need to do a join between the two. And then the next is table per class and
this is a strategy where each subclass
will have its own table. So kind of
violating some database rules and by
having extended properties across
multiple tables because you'll be
repeating the properties for each class
in each table. So a lot of debate as to
when to use what. Each has its own
upsides and downsides. The joined table
does look technically correct but it
does force you to do a join and would in
theory could cause some performance
problems on larger data sets. Last thing
I want to talk about is creating update
timestamps. I'm going to show you an example. This
is coming up and it's often, I consider the best
practice to use, create an update
timestamps. It's a nice little audit
trail. So you can see when entities were
created in the database and also when
they were last updated. JPA does support
PrePersist and PreUpdate. These are
life cycle callbacks that you can tap
into and then set up a strategy to
update your timestamps around PrePersist for the create and PreUpdate
for any update action. And then Hibernate
and this is Hibernate specific. You need to
keep that in mind. It is a
hibernation interpretation of the
library that Hibernate is providing for
JPA
and that's the at creation time stand
annotation and update timestamp
annotation. These both can be used to
update timestamps and when I'm using a
Hibernate project, these are the ones
that I personally use even though I'm
breaking the JPA standards so to
speak. They're just a little more
convenient. You don't have to write as much
logic as when you're sporting the
prepossessed and pre update.